---
layout: content
title:  Police department's tracking efforts based on false statistics
date:   2016-05-26
categories: attack
---
Documents initially made public by the Missouri police department
describe their efforts on tracking Freenet usage.  Using a simple
scheme, they claim a near zero false positive rate for
tracking the originator of a download.  While we applaud all public
documentation on attacks, we have to point out that the claimed
effectiveness of their attacks is based solely on flawed mathematics.
In reality, the false positive rate of their method is at least 83%,
and close to 100% in real world scenarios.

The claimed effectiveness of their attack is based on a false
assumption about the distribution of the HTL of incoming requests.  HTL (Hops
to Live) is a number embedded in each request that is usually
decremented when the request is forwarded, starting at a value of 18
at the originator of the request, and serves to limit the number of
hops a request can survive on the network.  As a security precaution,
the HTL is decremented probabilistically on the first few hops.  In
their tracking efforts, the Missouri police department assumes that
when multiple requests for pieces of a file arrive from a single node,
and all these requests have HTL 18 with no requests at HTL 17 or 16,
this node must be the originator of the requests, with a false
positive probability decreasing with the number of requests received
from the node.  This would be true if whether the HTL is
decremented is decided per request, which has historically been the
case in the early days of Freenet.  The vulnerability they claim to
exploit was however addressed in 2008 (last touched in [this
commit][commithtl18]).  Whether the HTL is decremented is since
decided per connection, so any probability they claim using the
aforementioned method is false.

For every connection there is a 50% chance that all the HTL 18 requests
(not only a single one, as would be the case with per-request
probabilistic decrementing) did not originate from the node from which
we received them but were forwarded one step. So for 10 connections
(the lowest number of peers Freenet uses), there are on average 5
other nodes whose HTL 18 requests are forwarded with HTL 18, so the
probability that a given HTL 18 request originated at the node from
which we received it is only about 17% (1 in 6). If the node has more
connections (close to 30 is common), this probability is even lower. And
this probability does not get higher when gathering more requests of
chunks from a specific file or a specific kind of files, because they
can reasonably all be forwarded from a different node — the one which
really sent them.

The heterogenity of the network and routing with second-level
connections taken into account does not easily yield robust
statistical claims without knowing the peers of peers of the node
under investigation. Staying connected for a long time might allow for
distinguishing between the changing peers of the node and requests
originating at the node itself, but with significant cost.

If the node which is tracked has friend-to-friend peers
(which unlike automatically added peers do not change regularly), even waiting
will not allow finding out with the described method whether HTL 18 requests came from the
node itself or from the peers connected over
friend-to-friend connections.

For details, see [the code][codehtl18].

This does not make it impossible to track Freenet users who use only
Opennet mode (connecting to strangers), since a network where nodes
connect to strangers is inherently susceptible to Sybil attacks,
where nodes of typical users are outnumbered by malicious, colluding nodes.

The only way to defend against serious attacks is to *use Freenet in
Friend-to-Friend mode*, where the precondition to tracking a user is
social engineering to get the people to whom he/she is connected to
betray the user. The need to defend against this type of attack is
the reason why the core of Freenet was rewritten in 2007 to add this
Friend-to-Friend mode (called Darknet mode).

However the method used by the Missouri police department is using
false statistics: despite its flaws, Freenet's Opennet is much harder to
track than they claim.

The Freenet developers do not condone these attacks. Police departments
try to use every legal venue to catch criminals. This is their job and
vocation, but any attack they find could also be used by oppressive
governments to suppress dissenting opinions, so we will work to fix attacks
as they come to light.
We expect law enforcement to get their math right, especially when using
it in court. If they can get a warrant with an 83% false positive
rate, that's a problem for lawmakers. If they falsely claim a 0% false
positive rate, that's eroding the trust of citizens in the legal
system.

Additional information on this attack is available from the
[mailing list discussion][mlhtl18].

The mission of the Freenet Project is to safeguard freedom of the
press by providing censorship resistant communication. This requires
protecting people against being targeted for what they write or
read. To achieve this, Freenet enables users to publish anonymous
websites and offers chat, forums, and file-sharing, as well as
confidential communication among friends and methods to leverage the
capabilities of Freenet from other tools.

When the police spread misinformation about the security of Freenet, it
directly undermines our mission by driving users to networks which
cannot provide a comparable level of security for
whistle-blowers and those wishing to publish anonymously.

[commithtl18]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/commit/4aaa08f11656af1dd857e45612763c9bd2d89fc2
[codehtl18]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/blob/next/src/freenet/node/PeerNode.java#L1603
[mlhtl18]: https://emu.freenetproject.org/pipermail/devl/2016-May/038923.html
