---
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1479 released
date:   2017-11-03
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1479 is now available.

This release ships WoT 19 which provides 
performance and UI improvements. For details
see the [WoT19 tag][].

update.sh can now provide a failover via clearnet again
(which was broken when our website SSL certificate
provider stopped providing SSL certificates),
but only for fproxy itself, not for plugins or 
dependencies. This is the first step to allow us 
to again ship changes which touch routing algorithms.
On GNU/Linux and MacOSX you can use `./update.sh`
to get the most recent version. Note however that
this will contact github via clearnet. You should
only need that if we break the auto-updater in the
larger transitions to come (hopefully not).

You can speed up the web interface by letting the browser 
cache SSK and CHK content (there is a new config option). 
This will however leave traces in your browser cache.

Also this release provides optimized network settings for the new structure
since the link length fix: less peers for the same bandwidth should
result in higher throughput per connection. This allows for less
powerful devices to join (with low bandwidth settings) and should
provide better bandwidth utilization for very fast nodes.

Further changes:

- Re-enable RSA-based ciphers for SSL-connections to the node

- add jfniki index bookmark (use "add default bookmarks" to get it)  
  this provides a collaborative index of indexes building on jfniki

- l10n: pull translations from transifex
- plugins: Freemail v0.2.7.3 (new translations)

For additional details see the [release tag][releasetag1479].

You can download this release as usual from the [download page][],
or if you are already using Freenet, simply let your freenet node
update itself over Freenet.

Thank you to all involved!

- Arne Babenhauserheide

[releasetag1479]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/releases/tag/build01479
[WoT19 tag]: https://github.com/freenet/plugin-WebOfTrust/releases/tag/build0019
[download page]: pages/download.html
