---
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1487 released
date:   2020-10-10
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1487 is now available.

The focus of this build are *plugin-updates*, support for *Freenet on Android*,
and a new signing process for the windows installer.

Among the plugins, *KeepAlive* is finally an official plugin thanks to
the work by Redwerk. As its name suggests, it allows you to select
files in Freenet and keep them alive. For this, KeepAlive only probes
part of the file to determine availability and heals the file if
availability becomes too low. If you want to ensure that your favorite
Linux Distro DVD stays available over Freenet, head over to
Configuration - Plugins and select and load the official plugin
KeepAlive. Then select KeepAlive from the menu and add the key.

The second plugin added is UPnP2 a replacement for the aging UPnP
plugin. This is experimental and will not replace UPnP
automatically. If you want to help test it, please load it and check
whether it correctly forwards ports in your local network.

In addition to new plugins, 1487 also updates existing plugins:

- plugin-FlogHelper adds audio- and video-tag and more translations,
- Sharesite provides better default CSS (more beautiful sites) and clearer wording,
- Freemail uses the newer WoT API, and
- KeyUtils has a small fix to adjust for internal API change (was broken in 1486).

To get the update, reload the plugins and select “clear cache”.

On the technical side, this build accepts Android Java as not End of
Life to simplify the mobile-node maintenance. If you’d like to try
running Freenet on your Android phone, see
<https://freenet-mobile.github.io/app/>. It should work with minimal
battery drain and bandwidth usage, since it ships with the
optimizations talked about for years and finally implemented by
desyncr this summer: You can set it to only stay connected when on
wifi and wall-power, it uses a ram-store to avoid wear on your SD
card, and it ships a mobile optimized management interface while
providing all the capabilities of Freenet under the hood.

Finally the windows-installer and wintray are now being built by our
continuous integration system using a more secure code-signing setup.
This should reduce the scary warnings on install,
reduces our dependency on specific setup of the release manager,
and provides earlier checks whether something in fred broke the installer.


For additional details see the [release tag for 1487][releasetag1487].


You can download this release as usual from the [download page][],
or if you are already using Freenet, simply let your freenet node
update itself over Freenet.


Thank you to all involved!


- Arne Babenhauserheide

[releasetag1487]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/releases/tag/build01487
[download page]: pages/download.html
