---
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1486 released
date:   2020-08-06
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1486 is now available.


This is an emergency release which updates JNA to version 4.5.2 to
prevent Windows nodes from breaking when Java is updated.

Since we’re releasing from next, this release contains a number of
further improvements we had already prepared:

The first time wizard now warns users on first run to disable
thirdparty IMEs (input method editors). There are reports that
some of those IMEs send all keystrokes to their owners.

Alex Williams changed the bandwidth allocation to give more bandwidth
to friend-to-friend connections than to opennet connections.
Friend-to-friend connections (Darknet-mode) are the only way to build
a Sybil-resistant network. Please invite people you’ve known for years
long to join you in Freenet and connect to them as Friends.

Oleh from Redwerk improved the styles of our main theme (Winterfacey).
It now works much better for small devices like phones. Also Freenet
will offer a connection speed upgrade when increased speed is
detected.

On the technical side, operhiem1 and nextgens got us a new jarsigner
certificate which should remove some ugly warnings during
installation, and thanks to Bombe our SSK and USK key validation is
now stricter, and our tests now use JUnit 4. And we increased the max
size for passthrough, so our Windows installer should spread over [UOM](https://github.com/freenet/wiki/wiki/Update-Over-Mandatory)
again.

Finally, outside the direct release, but significant: desyncr ported
Freenet to Android! The new [Freenet
Mobile][freenet-mobile] is optimized to preserve
bandwidth and battery power in phones. Find out how to test it [on
reddit][freenet-mobile-reddit].


Thank you for using Freenet!

For additional details see the [release tag for 1486][releasetag1486].


You can download this release as usual from the [download page][],
or if you are already using Freenet, simply let your freenet node
update itself over Freenet.


Thank you to all involved!


- Arne Babenhauserheide

[releasetag1486]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/releases/tag/build01486
[freenet-mobile-reddit]: https://www.reddit.com/r/Freenet/comments/i21dca/freenet_mobile_01_beta
[freenet-mobile]: https://github.com/freenet-mobile/app
[download page]: pages/download.html
