---
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1485 released
date:   2020-02-14
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1485 is now available.


This release adds checking for Ogg Theora video files thanks to
redwerk: Freenet can now display video safely.

For files whose size does not shrink a lot by compression, compression
is now skipped. This should speed up inserts of video files. Also
compressors were cleaned up: During upload a test of one deprecated
compressor will now be skipped, if other compressions methods are
requested, too.

Freenet now requires Java 8 as the minimum version. Maintenance of
Java 7 has long been stopped, and Java 8 is now available on all
target machines, including Debian stable. If you do not have Java 8
yet, please update.

Also Freenet captures fetchKeyBoxAboveBookmarks from the theme as
default value.

In preparation of directly usable pure friend-to-friend installers,
Freenet will now ask the user whether to connect, if there are `*.fref`
files in a `peers-offers/` folder.

And it fixes a bug that caused some Freenet nodes to loop
on startup due to excessive memory use.


Sidenote: If you are using a thirdparty IME 
(Input Method Editor, used as text input for common asian languages), 
please disable it for Freenet and use an IME from your Operating System.
There have been reports of the IME collecting your keystrokes and
sending them to remote servers.


Thank you for using Freenet!

For additional details see the [release tag for 1485][releasetag1485].


You can download this release as usual from the [download page][],
or if you are already using Freenet, simply let your freenet node
update itself over Freenet.


Thank you to all involved!


- Arne Babenhauserheide

[releasetag1485]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/releases/tag/build01485
[download page]: pages/download.html
