---
author: Freenet Contributors
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1490 released
date:   2021-04-01
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1490 codename “pitch black streaming” is now available.


> **[Download Freenet][download page]**


Freenet 0.7.5 build 1490 is now available.


This release provides three different changes:

* streaming in the browser,
* mitigating the pitch black attack, and
* providing the windows-installer from the node again.


For **streaming**, it builds on the m3u-filter to provide
direct in-browser streaming. Currently
it works with audio (mp3 and ogg vorbis)
and video (ogg theora) in sufficient quality for
music playlists and specially crafted video-streams.

With this change, adding a media-tag that references an m3u-list like

    <audio src="stream.m3u" controls="controls">
	<a href="stream.m3u">stream.m3u</a>
    </audio>

or

    <video src="stream.m3u" controls="controls">
	<a href="stream.m3u">stream.m3u</a>, starting with <a href="sff-001.ogv">sff-001.ogv</a>.
        Putting the first video here causes freesitemgr to more likely
        put the first video into the container, giving faster initial startup.
    </video>

gives you a media-tag that plays the m3u-playlist.
In Sharesites you need to add at least one space before the tag.

If you want to stream via Freenet yourself, you’ll find help in
a [thirdparty howto][streaming-howto].

There are three example sites:

- Audio-Playlist: USK@1wpsnrzb9fiFmmq6OozoZ0Mnk376AlizUKjKPh3TXwM,CwfRO8X0xaCUzH28eoHigxUV-5TkRV8hCoQdO2kmsQM,AQACAAE/streaming-over-fproxy/3/
- Streaming Video: USK@UGh1rxaHczJVr4k4LwxWrxFBc-Dt5P0F3IuPONpp8ZQ,klWF5g9B2PLst8tRO8c9tzk6XvisGynFVJRzM8-9718,AQACAAE/stream-36c3-sff/3/
- Radio Interview: USK@4DQ15JpGlVGDdyXvQE3Egz7SLK2TzMAUmp~aptnwyt4,ljFASreV8AHaQhscfrNLuVyl3qksltgP9sndtLuUHB8,AQACAAE/stream-radiocc-freenet/1/

This follows an old idea to enhance freesites with strictly checked interactivity,
similar to userscripts but without the security implications of adding a script
that might have a very different threat model than Freenet itself.


Also this release ships a **mitigation for the pitch black attack**. 
For details see <https://www.mail-archive.com/devl@freenetproject.org/msg55182.html>

Mitigating the pitch black attack is supported by NLnet
as part of the NGI0 PET Fund.
For details see <https://nlnet.nl/project/Freenet-Routing/>
Thank you!

There are still more tests needed to ensure that the change suffices
to resolve the main objection that existed among people well-versed
in the technical background of Freenet, GNUnet, and others
against using the friend-to-friend mode of Freenet since 2007.

It used to be far too easy to break a pure friend-to-friend net
(all nodes using high-security mode). This should be resolved now.


And finally the **UOM transfer max sizes were tripled**,
so the windows-installer provided by Freenet nodes gets updated again,
and the annoying warning about freenet-latest-installer-windows.exe
during install and update disappears.


> **[Download Freenet][download page]**


Thank you for using Freenet!


- Arne Babenhauserheide


[releasetag1490]: https://github.com/hyphanet/fred/releases/tag/build01490
[download page]: pages/download.html
[streaming-howto]: https://www.draketo.de/software/stream-over-freenet.html
