---
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1491 released, platform support
date:   2021-05-08
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1491, codename “platform support”, is now available.

> **[Download Freenet][download page]**

This build is a bugfix release that improves operation on different platforms and with different local setup.

It ships cleanups to the pitch black defense and to streaming video and audio in the browser.


For the pitch black defense, it disables defensive swapping
if swapping is disabled in general, because the node uses opennet.
This should resolve problems to the network structure and data persistence
introduced during the pitch-black fix because 
opennet nodes started swapping when they had network-issues.

Also it delays the pitch black defense to 10 minutes after startup
instead of 1 minute after startup to further reduce the probability of
stray swapping.  Mitigating the Pitch Black Attack is funded by NLnet
through the NGIO PET fund with financial support from the European
Commission's Next Generation Internet programme.

Sidenote: If you have a Freenet project, that might be a good match
for the Assure grant or the Search and Discovery grant, have a look at
their site! The two application periods are open until first of June
and a good match for individuals who want to get funding for concrete
improvements. See the [NLnet themes](https://nlnet.nl/themes/).


For streaming, this release fixes operation over proxies that provide a http node via https,
and it adds m3u compability for mobile devices - thanks to DC*
(some mobile browsers answer the query "supports m3u" with "maybe").

And there is a new publishing tool to prepare videos for streaming on
a Freesite that automates adding videos, optimized for use-cases like
sharing conference videos for which order does not matter, but you
want to make new videos available at regular intervals to match
viewer-expectations. Find it on the example site "watch 36c3,
incrementally":
USK@KxGwMvg~cXm5hs1ZX4NSH~I8fYyqcQD-~8dDdtmDs18,gKSJ4JQ4E1s2Pi-C1iKnfcpWp2pTmcOLaAz6PsogCpw,AQACAAE/watch-36c3-incrementally/1/


Further improvments in this release:

- Improve OpenBSD support thanks to jv@D7b92AQB2664AkrR.
- Fix plugin compatibility problems from refactoring.
- More cleanup of old code thanks to Jan Gerritsen.
- Fix label for logged attribute RoutingDisabled - thanks to Jan Gerritsen


As a final note: Researchers in Switzerland identified Freenet as one
of the few tools that are viable for transmitting medical data,
because it can actually provide the data protection required for
sensitive communication: [Using Freenet as a Broker for Multi-Party Data Exchange in IoT for Health](https://www.igi-global.com/chapter/using-freenet-as-a-broker-for-multi-party-data-exchange-in-iot-for-health/257911).


> **[Download Freenet][download page]**


Thank you for using Freenet!


- Arne Babenhauserheide


[releasetag1491]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/releases/tag/build01491
[download page]: pages/download.html
[streaming-howto]: https://www.draketo.de/software/stream-over-freenet.html
