---
layout: content
title:  Freenet build 1493: initial user experience, sneakernet, performance
date:   2022-04-06
categories: release
---
Freenet 0.7.5 build 1493 is now available.

> **Download Freenet [for Desktop][download page]** (Windows, MacOSX, GNU Linux, *nix) or **[for Android](https://freenet-mobile.github.io/app/)**


This build provides four core improvements:

1. Curated default bookmarks,
   including an actively maintained index and Shoeshop for sneakernet
2. Better peer scaling for very fast nodes 
3. Updated defaults to adapt to the higher capacities of modern systems
4. Compatibility with Java 17, first in the installers, with the
   following update for all nodes

Together these changes should improve the user experience for new
people, give sneakernet the visibility it deserves, and increase the
performance of the network as a whole.


## Default Bookmarks

The *curated default bookmarks* provide a much better first-start 
experience. Previously new users saw mostly outdated sites in 
inactive indexes.

Adding *Shoeshop* to enable *sneakernet* which can connect separate 
Freenet networks even if no internet connection can be established 
now provides all the tools for self-publishing, not only in the 
style of publishing an online blog (which is already easy with 
Sharesite) or sending a file to an independent printer, but in the 
much more self-reliant style, resourcefulness and rebellious spirit 
of classical samizdat.


## Peer-Scaling

Adjusted peer-scaling fixes a conceptual problem: Fast nodes could 
not utilize their bandwidth well enough, because the previous 
peer-scaling did not take the aggregated bandwidth limit of the 
peers into account. Now very fast nodes have linearly scaling 
peer-counts to make it more likely that the capacity of their peers 
added together matches the capacity of the fast node. The absolute 
upper limits stay in place, because they are needed to preserve 
privacy. There are also no changes to the peer-scaling of slower 
nodes.

The fixed scaling should improve the performance of the whole 
network because it avoids creating artificial bottlenecks.


## Default Settings

Changes to the defaults are a doubled thread limit of newly 
installed nodes (increased from 500 to 1000), with the stack size 
per thread reduced by half to avoid higher memory consumption, the 
datastore size is increased from 20GiB to 100GiB, because SSDs are 
much faster and more resilient than before, and the default 
bandwidth to offer if the actual speed cannot be found is doubled 
to 32KiB/s.

These newer defaults should also improve the first-time user 
experience.


## Java 17

Compatibility with Java 17 took longer than we hoped, because it 
required deploying a newer wrapper and changes to the classpath. 
This makes it easier to support packages for modern Linux, and it 
should avoid losing nodes when Java updates itself (starting from 
the next update this also applies to existing nodes; we have to 
deploy the update code in 1493 so it can run during the update to 
1494).


## Translations

And last, but definitely not least, our translation team
updated enough of the the German, Persian, Finnish, 
Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian, and Swedish 
texts in Freenet that we can ship the new versions. Thank you 
very much!


## Contribute

If you want to help us get better, please chat with us in <a href="https://web.libera.chat/?nick=FollowRabbit|?#freenet" id="chatlink" class="btn button-custom btn-custom-two">#freenet @ irc.libera.chat</a>. And give us time to answer, we’re all volunteers and might not be in your timezone.

To get into development right-away, have a look at one of the [Freenet-Projects](https://github.com/freenet/wiki/wiki/Projects) or just get [fred](https://github.com/freenet/fred) and fix something that annoys you.

And to take on something that makes a big difference, have a look at the [high-impact tasks](https://github.com/freenet/wiki/wiki/High-Impact-tasks).


## What is Freenet?

> Freenet is a peer-to-peer platform for  
> censorship-resistant and privacy-respecting  
> publishing and communication.


That Freenet can keep moving forward and help people worldwide to 
exercise their basic rights and freedoms is the work of amazing 
volunteers, both contributors and people running Freenet nodes. 

Thank you for your contributions, and thank you for using Freenet!


\-- AB


> **Download Freenet [for Desktop][download page]** (Windows, MacOSX, GNU Linux, *nix) or **[for Android](https://freenet-mobile.github.io/app/)**



[releasetag1493]: https://github.com/freenet/fred/releases/tag/build01493
[download page]: pages/download.html
